so hi everyone
in this video we're discussing my learning framework when
I'm trying to learn a new technology
what do I mean by technology well
full stack development, web 3, webRTC, AI
all of these are things that have intrigued me
over the past few years and there's a
very specific framework that I've used
to learn these, Target these get jobs in
these and become like pretty good at
them so that I can 1. earn money and
2. be very proficient in these skills if
you do like my learning framework and
want to learn besides me I am launching
something very soon if you would like to
know about that feel free to subscribe
to either my substack, Discord or my
telegram Channel that's where I'll be
announcing it first and eventually I may
or may not release it on YouTube so if
you would like to know about this first
feel free to join any one of these
groups with that let's get right into
the video so this video is going to be
broken down into five parts in the first
four parts I'll be introducing four new
terminologies these are goal driven learning
learning before earning
question driven development and
tutorial hell in the fifth part I am going to
show you my framework and using these
four terminologies in what I am trying
to learn next which is writing low
latency code in languages like rust and
C plus pass so let's begin with the
first one the first one is
goal driven development so when we get into tech for
most people we either take a computer
science degree because well a lot of
people have told us there's a lot of
money here and for most people 99% of the
people there is some money based
monetary motivation to get into the
field of computer science this is very
good and that was the case for me as
well in fact up until my first semester
I did not code at all only in my second
semester did I begin to code because I
got my first goal which was Google
summer of code and more importantly
making like $5500 through the summer so
what is goal driven learning goal driven
learning is when you have a very
specific goal in mind which is usually
related to money and that's your primary
motivation to sort of get into computer
science or learn a specific technology
for example a goal for me right now is
to learn how coding happens in HFT firms
and what's the reason behind it well
there is some monetary benefit there
because these companies pay a lot of
money these goals would be very small
for example getting a $200 gig on upwork
or making it to Google summer of code to
make $2500 whatever they pay now or
getting like a first 12 lakh per annum
package or maybe joining a startup that
you've really wanted to and that you
know it pays really well in India the
reason goal driven learning is good is
because since you have an end goal
this is like sort of related to IIT jee
preparation we have like an end goal of
giving an examination which is why
very structured learning that happens
over two years versus if you don't have
an end goal it's very easy to sort of do
10 things at the same time machine
learning AI where three full stack
development and not do very concentrated
learning if you have a goal you know
what to do and more specifically what
not to do for the next few months so
that you achieve that goal once once you
achieve that goal you can decide whether
this is what you want to do for the rest
of your life or if you want a new goal
now but if you have a goal you sort of
have something to work towards you can
see some light at the end of the tunnel
which I think especially in Tech which
is a very difficult field to understand
if you're a complete beginner and just
beginning to get into it if you have a
goal at the end your motivation is
really high through this journey and
whatever obstacles come which quite
frankly they will especially if you're
trying to learn a new technology at
least you have something to look forward
to at the end of the tunnel you may make
it you may not make it but the
motivation that you have through this
journey is much higher if you have an
end goal in mind so I would strongly
suggest at this point that you sort of
choose a specific goal which could be
okay I want my first 12 lakh package or
if you're currently working already I
want my first remote offer for fifty
thousand dollars or if you already make
like I don't know 50-60 lakh rupees in
India I want my first sort of 100K offer
200k offer from a company in the US
These are nice goals that I sort of keep
in my head as well and the reason I
think they work is because we're all
humans and most of us are like not
inherently interested in computer
science we're in here for the money if
you have a monetary goal in mind it's
easier for you to reach there so I would
strongly suggest at this point you sort
of decide that first of all of course
don't be extremely ambitious to begin
with and make sure you have a group of
people who are targeting the same goal
that also makes this journey extremely
smooth and that sort of my goal with
what I'm introducing very soon with that
let's move to the second point the
second point is called learning before
earning this is something that a senior
of mine introduced to me I've talked
about the senior a few times on my
channel my senior the person who was
laughing in the last year in my
contributions uh this time saw this
email that guy was like he's a Super
Genius, he did GSoC thrice
not even twice back then you
could do this or three times
I saw the senior had done GSoC Thrice he had
the best offers in India yet he decided
to go for his Masters in the US
completed his Masters worked at Facebook
AI for like a few years and now is a
very well positioned to make a lot of
money in the coming Bull Run in fact
this is the senior I'm going to be
talking to when I start to learn AI and
he'll sort of guide me on what to do
what not to do and this decision of him
not taking a job in India and going for
his Masters learning before earning is
something that sort of served him very
well so you have a very long career of
40 years if you have to take breaks in
the middle you should do it if you think
it will benefit you in the long term
feel free to take a pause decide what
you want to do next and then maybe
Sprint more practically let's say if
you're getting a job offer for three
lakh per annum from some service based
company and if you feel like upscaling
on the next six months and then getting
a job that will pay you like 12 lakh per
annum I think that's a decent compromise
to make again everyone's situation is
different you may or may not be able to
take this bet but as I said the senior
had the best offers in India and he did
not really belong to the most affluent
family yet he decided to go for his
Masters in fact Masters in the US is
pretty expensive so he ended up paying a
lot of money but still it was the right
decision so if you have these sort of
small checkpoints in your journey where
someone is offering you something
extremely below standard or if you're
working at a startup where you're not
learning anything there's like a lot of
grunt work that's happening or you're
doing some testing work that you feel is
going to get replaced eventually you
should definitely spend some time
learning even if it takes a few months
of you not earning and then eventually
what you'll make is much more basically
what you would have made in these six
months you'll end up making like a month
or two if of course your journey is
right so you have to make sure you keep
other things in mind that I'm talking
about throughout the video but if you
have the option of learning before earning
always go for learning
eventually it will have huge
implications in your life I'll give
another example I've worked at Goldman
Sachs was a very good job offer like 30LPA
after taxes I would make like
1-1.5 lakh rupees per month which is pretty
good in Bangalore but I ended up taking
a break of three months deciding what to
do next started freelancing and then
sort of that offer went up and up if I
did not take that leap of faith I'd
still be working at Goldman Sachs making
like 2 lakh rupees per month or whatever
which is also great but taking a break
made a lot of sense for me because I
knew that was not the right company for
me and I could acquire skills eventually
that would pay me much more so even
though it was a scary decision back then
eventually I ended up paying well and so
if you have the option of learning and
of course have the Liberty to leave a
job or not get paid for a few months I
would suggest spending some time months
or Years Learning and then diving right
back into earthing cool with that let's
move to the third point so the third
terminology I want to introduce is
called question driven development this
is a term that's been recently
introduced and what it means is whenever
you're trying to learn a new technology
don't dive into tutorials talk to
someone who's good in this field or has
been working in this field and ask them
what they do on a day-to-day basis maybe
ask them to break it down into a project
then break down the project into
multiple small questions and Implement
these one by one I'm going to repeat this again
if you want to learn a new
technology for example you want to learn
node.js I would suggest you start with
the goal so the goal could be I want to
join a startup in India that pays me 12
lakh per annum okay what is the startup
use it uses the MERN stack okay
how do I learn the MERNstack through question
driven development basically ask a
person in this company what do you work
on on a day-to-day basis and can you
break it down into a small project for
me if possible could you break the
project down into small prompts or
questions that can each be implemented
in less than 100 lines of code this is
sort of the gist of question driven
development it's basically you breaking
down a very complex project into small
subtasks each subtask should be able to
be done in less than 100 lines of code
and you should do this independently
without the help of any tutorial you can
look at docs you can maybe talk to chat
gbt to understand things from the high
level do not look at any tutorial and
anyways tutorials are sort of structured
in a certain way if you want to break it
down into multiple tasks and want to do
these individually you won't be able to
find a tutorial that will help you out
exactly in the end I'll show you the
project and the sub tasks that my friend
from one of these HFT firms gave me but
the idea here is break down a big
project into smaller sub projects in
fact I have a repo Linked In the
description in which I have a bunch of
projects for learning the MERN stack or
like full stack development and a bunch
of small subtasks that you can do each
of these subtasks can be done in less
than 100 lines of code so do these one
by one and this is what is sort of
called question driven development where
you do not look at a tutorial you solve
small problems and then eventually merge
all the small problems together to build
a very big project and now you
understand all of these things from the
fundamentals if possible make sure you
get this project from a friend who's
currently working in the industry at a
specific company that you aim to work at
with that let's move to the fourth point
the fourth terminology I want to
introduce here is called
tutorial hell
it's basically something I did back in
the day as well if you have seen this
channel called the New Boston it used to
be sort of very popular back in the day
when I was in college I downloaded the
complete Android development playlist
and I basically brought it back home
because I did not have good internet
here and I went through all these
tutorials where I followed what he was
doing this is a very nice Channel and
tutorials generally are great in fact
I've created a few tutorials of mine as
well on full stack development but if
you look at my tutorials I usually don't
do everything I sort of leave things for
you guys to implement by your own and
that's sort of one way to do tutorials
generally I don't recommend looking at
tutorials at all because you're
following someone you're basically
coding what they're doing it's just like
a very manual task and you're sort of
not learning how things are happening
under the hood for example this playlist
sort of helps you make a very nice
mobile application which I did back in
the day but if you ask me to code such
an application today in fact even if you
ask me how I can like create a simple
application with a button in Android you
won't be able to do it why because I
haven't built real world projects by
myself I've just copied someone in fact
looked at the screen on the left hand
coded the same thing on the right that
will usually not get you anywhere that's
sort of what a tutorial hell is you
looking at a tutorial following the
tutorial completely but you're still not
able to get a job or reach your goal or
sort of build projects that these
companies want you to build because
while you've sort of followed someone
you know what they have done and if
someone asks you to build the same thing
you might be able to do it that too
frankly for a few days because it's sort
of muscle memory that you were able to
follow them if someone asks you to build
the same thing in like two months you
won't be able to do it because well
you've forgotten about it sort of the JEE
way of learning you're sort of cramming
a few things while following a tutorial
so strong recommended addition to not
follow tutorials work on
project-based learning like look out for
a lot of assignments see how real world
projects are built and then start
building them on your own of course
don't start with a very complex project
how should you start you should start
with question driven development
breaking it down into subtasks and then
implementing them one by one cool with
that let's move to the fifth point
something you might have been waiting
for which is how I'm learning to become
a low latency developer in one of these
HFT firms so what's my goal my goal is
to get a 4 CR offer like a very big
offer or like more specifically like
understand how things happen but
why do these companies pay so much money
through these hft developers why is
every year like someone from IIT making
getting like a very Hefty package in New
York or Chicago where these companies
are based and what exactly they do on a
day-to-day basis so I talked to a friend
who works in New York in one of these
companies and he gave me a good rundown
of what happens in these companies and
it was frankly very overwhelming so I
asked him to break it down into a small
project the project that he gave me is
build a very simple trading system
more specifically build like a real-time
system that lets you sort of send some
data from your client to a server and
then lets other people subscribe to
these updates so if you've ever looked
at zerodha and I mean you sort of know
where I'm getting with this I sort of
contribute to zerodha in my last video
as well zerotdha's application lets you
place trades which is like give me 10
stocks of tata and then those trades are
executed and the price sort of goes up
and down you can see that price in real
time he basically asked me to build
something similar doesn't have to be a
trading application he said it can be a
simple sat application as well as long
as it's written in C, C++ or rust
one of these languages and the way he
broke it down for me was
1. understandhow websocket servers are written inthese languages
2. understand how data transmission happens
3. understand how data compression happens
and 4. understand how you can reasonably
distribute your servers in order to have
minimum latency when you are trying to
place an order so that's my goal for the
next one month or so I'm going to
implement this application that sort of
looks similar to a trading application
similar to Zerodha, written in rust has
a websocket server lets you place an
order and I have to make sure that I
place the order with the minimum latency
which happens if I am very close to the
server or I'm sending very small data so
I have to compress data as much as I can
I've also linked this project in the
repo in the description so feel free to
look at it with that hopefully you
understand my learning framework I'll
make another video in a month where I'll
tell you how I was able to build the
project what project I built I'll open
source it feel free to look at that as
well with that let's end the video I'll
see you guys in the next one bye